---
layout: post
title:  "Back Pain"
date:   2023-04-12 11:47:25 -0700
categories: health
permalink: back-pain
---
# Research and analysis for what I should do about my back pain

TODO: 
- look into data about success/failure rates of difference approaches for different ages
- look up famous people who've gotten it because their stories are explained more
  * tiger woods
- talk to dads friend Jeff Larson spine surgon and teacher in Idaho from Selkirk ski trip. Talk to him before anything
- Kaiser billing, shop around. MRI should be $350
- maybe try more chiro
- and also if I just go hard on core, like everyday running and basic lateral core stuff, everyday for like 30 mins I might feel really good
- McGill method https://joefergusondc.com/

## Personal data collection
- MRI "countless articles on MRIs for back pain and understand that they show "issues" in most people, but these issues aren't always the reason for pain"


## Diagnosis:
- Stenosis
- herniated disc
- when going to pain doc for epidural, they should get a good look at your posture, hips, range of motion, etc. You're paying for more than an injection usually, you should get an opinion especially with tests and films in hand.

## Options:

### Epidural steroid injections:
- One doctor says "80% of patients that get the injection can avoid surgery"
- need to fact check this: "steroid injections are toxic to cartilage and will actually make your injury worse"

#### Quotes from [source](https://paindoctor.com/faq-epidural-steroid-injections/)

There are three major types of epidural steroid injections, which we’ll discuss in more detail below. They include:

- Interlaminar epidural steroid injections
- Transforaminal epidural steroid injections
- Caudal epidural steroid injections

It’s been suggested that doctors who always use fluoroscopy for a more accurate placement of the injection have higher rates of success.

It’s important that if you decide to undergo this procedure that you work with a doctor who has extensive knowledge and practice in administering these injections.

#### Adhesion removal

Look into adhesions: Adhesions are typically formed due to inflammation and irritation in the epidural space. These adhesions can aggravate nearby nerve roots causing intense pain (Manchikanti 2007). Scar tissue can frequently result in irritated and inflamed nerves, which can cause pain that radiates from the low back into the legs.

Maybe I just need to get those removed / treated

From [reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskOldPeople/comments/blhgtf/has_anyone_had_lower_back_surgery_how_did_that/):
"Some people need lower back surgery.

Other people don't, especially when they have a lot of ADHESION in their low back and psoas.

Meet Natalie- her surgeons insisted on surgery. But she got 100% better after having us removed the glue from her muscles."

#### Partial disectomy
Fitting a prosthetic disc that will fuse to the vertebrae over a period of 6 months

#### Spinal fusion
- lose flexibility

#### Lumbar Interbody Fusion (LIF) 
- combines spinal fusion with an interbody device, such as a threaded cage.
- three kinds: ALIF, PLIF, TLIF
- Tiger Woods did ALIF
- ALIF is an 'end-stage' procedure
- ALIF provides 60-70% relief for low back and eliminates motion

#### Dissectomy
maybe means remove whole disc?

#### Microdiscectomy
shave some of the disc to create more room

#### Prolotherapy
"I had a spinal fusion of (I think) L5 S1 over 10 years ago, the operation made my back pain worse, 2 more surgery's over 2 more years later didn't help either, it wasn't to a few years later that I was recommended prolotherapy, which is basically sugar water epidural injections that got it almost back to normal, though it still gives me some grief every now and then, I basically have no flexibility in my lower back, the rest of my back has to compensate, it doesn't effect my mountain biking though, which is a bonus."

Others speak very highly for prolotherapy for tendons / ligaments
Some people says it's homeopathic "medicine"

#### Artificial disc
- some like it
- might be better for C region though (instead of L / S where mine is)

#### decompression surgery
- One person said didn't work even after 1.5 year recovery, says get it while you're young

#### laminectomy
shave some of the bone off the nerve

#### nerve medications

#### Lumbar Radiofrequency Neurotomy
- temporarily turn off their ability to send pain signals
- last 6 months to 2 years
- poor / mixed results on reddit
- a few people said it worked, most said no change, some said made it worse

#### PRP-Lysate injection
- possible alternative to steroid injection
